---
date: 201911151418
---
# OSPF Areas and Summarization may not be needed

OSPF areas and summarization are two mechanisms designed to reduce routers' CPU and memory consumption, speed up the convergence and isolate impacts from changes.

From their design purpose, some are not true at 2019:[^5DB287BAAC16]

1. Reduce CPU and memory usage is mainly because both techniques result a smaller routing table. Unless the network is huge, this is not true. The CPU power and memory are significantly cheaper than both were designed, routers can easily handle a lot of routes now. Incremental SPF has also been introduced for years as well, which reduces the calculation a lot.

2. From the above point, the difference between using both (or one of ) methods or not is not obvious now.

3. Isolation of impacts. This is the only benefits for use them, since a change in a area won't impact others, especially there's a link damping. We have alternatives like event dampening or automation scripts to make the link offline for a period.

The issues these techniques bring to the network are:

1. strict hierarchical design
2. potentially announcing the same summarised prefix to create blackholes

Some reasons may prevent us removing them, like:[^5A0B595AE728]

1. vendor specific implementation, which implies a bad smell of the code quality
2. license issue which limits the number of routes
3. old devices.



[^5A0B595AE728]: [[OSPF Areas and Summarization: Theory and Reality « ipSpace.net blog]]

[^5DB287BAAC16]: [[Do We Still Need OSPF Areas and Summarization? « ipSpace.net blog]]