---
date: 201910072038
---
# AWS DevOps Engineer Professional Exam Practices Q3

A company is setting a centralised logging solution on AWS and has several requirements. The company wants its Amazon CloudWatch Logs and VPC Flow logs to come from different sub accounts and to be delivered to a single auditing account. However, the number of sub accounts keeps changing. The company also needs to index the logs in the auditing account to gather actionable insight.

How should a DevOps Engineer implement the solution to meet all of the company's requirements?


A. Use AWS Lambda to write logs to Amazon ES in the auditing account Create an Amazon CloudWatch subscription filter and use Amazon Kinesis Data Streams in the sub accounts to stream the logs to the Lambda function deployment in the auditing account.
B. Use Amazon Kinesis Streams to write logs to Amazon ES in the auditing account. Create a CloudWatch subscription filter and use Kinesis Data Streams in the sub accounts to stream the logs to the Kinesis stream in the auditing account.
C. Use Amazon Kinesis Firehose with Kinesis Data Streams to write logs to Amazon ES in the auditing account. Create a CloudWatch subscription filter and stream logs from sub accounts to the Kinesis stream in the auditing account.
D. Use AWS Lambda to write logs to Amazon ES in the auditing account. Create a CloudWatch subscription filter and use Lambda in the sub accounts to stream the logs to the Lambda function deployed in the auditing account.

Answer: C

Explanation: [^54A8F709430E]


[^54A8F709430E]: [[Central Logging in Multi-Account Environments | AWS Architecture Blog]]
